# Day 24 : Synchronous RAM Concepts

## Parameterizable sync_RAM
Parameterizable means we can change its parameters during instantiation. The parameters are depth and width. Depth means how many address location does it have and width means how wide each location is. Using parameterizable allows us to change the specs according to our need for other parts of project.


## Sync vs combinational reads
Register reads were combinational because for reading from our 32 registers register-file using 32x1 mux would have worked for reading, calculation and writing within one clock cycle. RAM has many locations to read and write from so selecting an address and reading from it within one clock cycle is physically difficult. So reading from RAM is also clock based not combinational.


## Read-Write hazard
At some clock cycle if we are writing the data to some address and on the same cycle we are reading from the same address. Then what happens is after the clock edge the data starts writing and reading also occurs simultaneously so in this case reading is done before the writing is fully completed so we read garbage value. To solve this we would be using "Write-first" approach. It means if read address equals write address in the same cycle, forward the write data directly to output, bypassing the memory read entirely.


## How is it different from registers
Registers use bulky flipflops but SRAM needs to pack millions of bits in a smaller space and uses 6T-cells (6Transistors for storing a bit). Registers use muxes to select address lines and read data while SRAM uses 2D grid of rows and columns. We use row wire(wordline) to select the row and column wire(bitline) to catch the data. The data relies on small voltage changes travelling over long wires so they need amplification using sense amplifier to detect it.Because these tiny voltage changes take some time to travel and amplified so SRAM reads cannot be combinational and must be triggered by clock edge to make it work. 