# Day 38 : I-Type Datapath and Two Muxes

## I-Type vs R-Type 
I-type and R-type instruction are somewhat the same. The only difference between them is R-type has rs2 while I-type has 12-bit immediate value. So for ALU's b input it is value from read_data2 for R-type and sign extended with 20 bits to make the 12bit immediate value, 32 bits for calculation for I-type. For I-type the msb of the immediate is extended to make it 32bits to be useful for calculation.


## ALUsrc MUX
It is used to select input value for ALU's b input. For input 0 it selects read_data2 for ALU's b input for R-type instruction and for input 1 it selects 12-bit immediate value with sign extension for ALU's b input for I-type instruction. 


## LW Instruction
For this instruction ALU calculates base+offset as RAM address. Then from that calculated address, the value is taken and kept into corresponding register.

## MemToReg MUX
To select what gets written to rd. Input 0 selects ALU result for being written to register and input1 selects sync_ram read_data to be stored into register. The output of this will be used to find write_data value for register file.

## SW
No new muxes are needed. read_data2 is already on a wire, we just need two control signals for this which are Memwrite=1 and RegWrite=0. 
Just like lw, ALU needs to calculate rs1+offset. So ALUsrc must be set to 1. We need to send the value inside rs2 to RAM. In register file, rs2 is connected directly to second read port so value immediately appears on read_data2 wire. Even though read_data2 is ignored by ALU as ALUsrc is set to 1 so we split the read_data2 wire and run it directly to write_data port of RAM. Since Memwrite=1 the RAM takes read_data2 value on its input and writes into address calculated by ALU. Since RegWrite=0 nothing is written to register file which means MemToReg multiplexer setting is a DON'T CARE- it doesn't matter what it is set to because register write is disabled.

## Control Signals Covered So Far
ALUsrc, MemToReg, RegWrite, MemWrite