# Day 3 : Half Adder and Full Adder

## What I learned
Half adder adds two bits and produces one sum bit and one carry bit. Sum bit is calculated using xor logic and cout is calculated using and gate for half adders.                         
Full adder does full addition including the carryin. It can be made by combining two half adders. First half adder adds the two input bits and produce sum1 and carry1. Sum1 and cin goes as input to next half adder which produces final sum and gives carry2. Final cout is given using carry1 OR carry2.                                                     

## What confused me and how I cleared
I got confused with assigning cin for second half adder in the code. I was thinking of two separate columns of numbers and getting confused and later cleared the confusion as full adder was meant for single column with carry from previous. At first we add the normal bits then we add the sum of it with cin to get final sum.                                    

## Code output
- half adder
'''
a=0 b=0 sum=0 carry=0
a=0 b=1 sum=1 carry=0
a=1 b=0 sum=1 carry=0
a=1 b=1 sum=0 carry=1
half_adder_tb.v:20: $finish called at 40 (1s)
'''
 
- full adder
'''
a=0 b=0 cin=0 sum=0 cout=0
a=0 b=0 cin=1 sum=1 cout=0
a=0 b=1 cin=0 sum=1 cout=0
a=0 b=1 cin=1 sum=0 cout=1
a=1 b=0 cin=0 sum=1 cout=0
a=1 b=0 cin=1 sum=0 cout=1
a=1 b=1 cin=0 sum=0 cout=1
a=1 b=1 cin=1 sum=1 cout=1
full_adder_tb.v:25: $finish called at 80 (1s)
'''

## Trace of row 7 through both half adders
Half Adder 1 : a(1) + b(1) = sum1=0, carry1=1                                         
Half Adder 2 : a(sum1=0) + b(cin=0) = final_sum=0, carry2=0                                
cout = carry1(1) OR carry2(0) => 1