# Day 11 : Register and Counter

## Register 4-bit
4-bit register is made from 4 flipflops sharing the same clock. All the flipflops are sharing the same clock across all the registers but we dont want to update every register on every clock rising edge. So we have a write enable signal which only updates the value in register when enable=1 else it just holds the value. To choose whether to hold the value or update there is a mux which selects the signal based on enable. To hold the value the output from the register is feedback into one of the mux's input and value is choosed between this holding value and new value from combinational logic.


## Counter 4-bit
Counter is just like the register but feeding incrementing value on every rising edge of clock cycle. It has reset signal (rst_n) which is active low meaning it resets the count when it is pulled low. Reset signals are made active low in the circuits because driving a signal low is faster than pulling it high. In VHDL at first we have to reset the counter so count starts at 0 and not at unknown value for simulation. It also has an enable signal and when enable=0, the counter holds the count.


## Self-checking testbench
We added PASS/FAIL checks beside monitor to check whether the circuit performed according to specification or not. It allowed to check the the working if it was according to requirement. We reset the counter at first to make count to 0 not unknown. Then we started counting for 2 cycles with enable=1 then we set enable=0 to check for the hold state against 0010 which would be counter's count in 2 cycles. Next we pulled the reset signal low for one clock cycle and checked the value of counter against 0000 to verify whether the value got reset or not. Then we started count from 0000 till 1111 for 160 cycles and checked the value at the end of 160th cycle to check if the count wrapped around by comparing it with 0000.


## GTKWave observation
In register the value changes only on rising edge of clock when enable=1 and holds the value when enable=0. If d changes before the rising edge the change is only seen at q after the clock rising edge. Similarly the count only increases on rising edges and when enable=1 the counter keeps updating and when enable=0 the count is hold not increased.