# Day 19 : Mealy FSM: Sequence Detector

## Mealy Vs Moore
In mealy output depeds on current state and current input simultaneously and in moore output fires whenever the state changes. As mealy fires output after input change so that firing can be anywhere in the clock period so if it fired earlier the output pulse width is wider and if it fires late(around the clock edge) then the output pulse width is narrower.

## Sequence Detector '1011'
| State | Input=0 | Input=1 | Output |
|-------|---------|---------|--------|
| S0    | S0      | S1      | 0      |
| S1    | S2      | S1      | 0      |
| S2    | S0      | S3      | 0      |
| S3    | S2      | S1      | 1      |

Here we reuse the input bits if sequence breaks and in case sequence breaks we go the state which matches the longest sequence in ths states.  We use Two process styles for sequence detector where output is on combinational block because it changes on instant input changes and sequential block only handles the change of state.

## Why clock is needed in mealy
Output is combinational meaning it changes instantly with input. But state is sequential which is stored in flipflops and only changes on clock edge. Without clock feedback loop from output back to state logic would cause infinite oscillation.The clock freezes the current_state between edges giving combinational logic a stable input to work from. (Combinational logic works with input and current_state both and produces output and also computes next_state which immediately becomes current_state changing the combinational logic output which immeidately changes next_state again causing oscillation of values so clock solves this letting current_state update at edges. So combinational logic can compute as much it wants so the value is stable till the next clock edge)

## Mealy Timing issue
Assert check should be immediately after the final sequence detection. Because detected==1 will change in next clock edge when state changes. So we have to assert this condition before the clock edge before the state change. Output changes immediately and stays as it is until state changes in next clock edge.