# Day 17 : Gate 6 

## always_comb 
at first there was always @() and we had to include every signals in the sensitivity list and missing one would cause the system to work unreliably or not work at all then to solve this we got always @(*) which solved the problem for missing signals but the simulator wouldn't know the intent and may create latch when we just want combinational logic then to solve all these we got always_comb which is strictly for combinational logic and every signals should be assigned here and if assignment is missing then compiler throws error instead of silently placing a latch and then we have always_ff which is used for sequential logic and uses non blocking assignments (<=) and is sensitive to clock


## CI Reliability lesson
Testbenches with only $display wont catch bugs. It will just display the values even if it's wrong, it wont actually correctly test the module. So we need assert + $fatal to actually test as it tests the module and if it goes wrong then it throws the error with related error message and stops the solution so using this is more reliable.


## What I initially failed 
I changed & to | for and gate to see if we can catch errors. But the testbench was only made up of $display so it gave wrong values without throwing the error. To fix this we added assert + $fatal to our testbenches and it correctly checked the values and throws error when something is wrong.
<br>I forgot someof the syntax while writing rtl for adder_subtractor myself. I forgot to keep output keyword at module declaration. Forgot to use assign for b_xor and mapped cout of full_adder3 using cout only while it should have been status.cout