# Day 18 : Finite State Machine - Moore FSM

## Moore Vs Mealy
Moore machine's output changes only when state changes while mealy machine's output depends on current state and the input and output can change immediately when input changes. <br>
Moore machine is used when output needs to be stable and glitch free. Timing critical outputs. Traffic light, CPU control signals.<br>
Mealy machine is used when we need fastest possible response. Sequence detectors, protocol decoders. 

## Two process styles
Process1: always_ff block - only stores state and counter, handles the sequential logic, includes the things that happen after a clock edge. <br>
Process2: always_comb block - only computes next state and outputs.

## Enum for states
We use enum for states which is we use variable names for states instead of numbers to make it more readable. For state names generally use block letters so that it dont get confused with output(ports).

## Traffic Light FSM
We have 3 states: GREEN, YELLOW AND RED. When counter==3, GREEN changes to YELLOW. Then on YELLOW when counter==1, YELLOW changes to RED. Then on RED when counter==3, RED changes to GREEN again. When state change counter resets to 0, and counter increases on every rising edge. The counter used here is not the self_contained counter, it is just a register that is holding the value (not the one which we made previously). So combinational logic decides what will be the value of next counter and on next clock edge sequential logic updates the current counter to that number.

