# Day 10 : D-Latch and D-flipflop

## D Latch
In SR-latch there was problem of forbidden state where both s=1 and r=1. So to solve this problem we have d_latch which internally uses the same circuit and in S-terminal we directly give the D input and in the R-terminal we give ~D input so at any point we can't get the forbidden state input. It has EN(enable) signal to only capture input when EN=1 and when EN=0 it holds whatever value is already there. So the two input terminals look like (D & EN) and (~D & EN). When EN=0 even if D changes the change is not seen at Q. 

## Transparency problem
When EN=1, q follows d. Whatever is there in d comes out at q. So during transitions at d the same transitioning garbage is seen at q. In real hardware combinational logic produces garbage during settling time.(Simulation hides this taking the signals as ideal) So using only latch is dangerous because of this transparency problem.


## Master-Slave architecture
We take 2 d-latches, one called master and one slave. We give EN(enable) signal to master and complementary signal(~EN) to slave. When en=1 master captures the input and slave holds whatever is there. When EN=0 master stops capturing and Q follows whatever master is holding. At transition from EN=1 to EN=0 master closes and slave opens simultaneously. So there is not any point where data is entering and leaving at the same time, so the transparency problem is now solved.


## D FlipFlop
always_ff @(posedge clk) and uses non blocking(<=) assignment. We dont have to manually define the master-slave architecture for this. When we write always_ff @(posedge clk) synthesizer automatically keeps the architecture where flipflop is working on positive edge.

## Output 
- D-flipflop
- time=0 clk=0 d=0 q=x
- time=5 clk=1 d=0 q=0
- time=10 clk=0 d=0 q=0
- time=15 clk=1 d=0 q=0
- time=20 clk=0 d=1 q=0
- time=25 clk=1 d=1 q=1
- time=30 clk=0 d=1 q=1
- time=35 clk=1 d=1 q=1
- time=40 clk=0 d=0 q=1
- time=45 clk=1 d=0 q=0
- time=50 clk=0 d=1 q=0
- time=55 clk=1 d=1 q=1
- time=60 clk=0 d=1 q=1
- time=65 clk=1 d=1 q=1
- d_flipflop_tb.sv:22: $finish called at 70 (1s)
- time=70 clk=0 d=1 q=1
The value of q only changes at rising edge. At time=20 d changed to 1 but not at positive edge of clock so q didn't change. The value at q changes according to d only at rising edge of clock.

