# Day 5 : Multiplexer

## What I learned
Multiplexer selects one signals from many signals. 2:1 mux selects one signal from the 2 input signals and 4:1 mux selects one signal from the 4 input signals. We have select signals to choose the signal. By changing combination on select signal we can select required input signal of our choice. For 4:1 mux today I used ternary operator which works like condition ? value_if_true : value_if_false. For 4:1 mux we need two select signals to choose from 4 input combinations. So we used s[1] ? (s[0] ? i3 : i2) : (s[0] ? i1 : i0)
It is nested ternay operation.                                                                  Here if s[1]=1 then we go to first case and if s[0]=1 then we get i3 and if s[0]=0 we get i2.       
if s[1]=0 then we go to second case and if s[0]=1 then we get i1 and if s[0]=0 we get i0.

## Where mux appear in cpu
Mux appear everywhere where we have to select one signal out of many. In writeback stage cpu needs to choose what value to write back to register. Sometimes the value comes from alu and sometimes from memory. So control unit sets a select signal on mux based on instruction type.


## Interesting info 
Mux is a combinational logic and it reacts continuously to whatever voltage is in select line even if it is in the middle of transition. So during this very small instant mux temporarily outputs garbage. Then aftersome instant select signal stablizes and mux outputs correct value. During the transition phase the garbage value doesnot get stored because flipflops captures the value at clock edge and the system is designed such that before another edge arrives the signals have to be settled. So despite mux throwing garbage value during transition of select signal, only the valid value is stored.


## Code output
s=00 i0=1 i1=0 i2=0 i3=0 y=1
s=01 i0=0 i1=1 i2=0 i3=0 y=1
s=10 i0=0 i1=0 i2=1 i3=0 y=1
s=11 i0=1 i1=0 i2=0 i3=1 y=1