# Day 32 : B-type and J-type Decoding

## B-Type Instruction
B-type instructions are branch related instructions. It looks at two different registers and based on the type of operation the code jumps to a new part. It is a conditional jump which means it jumps based only on condition.<br>
[imm[12]] [imm[10:5]] [rs2] [rs1] [funct3] [imm[4:1]] [imm[11]] [opcode] <br>
opcode = 1100011 <br>
funct3 = decides which operation inside B-type instruction <br>
rs1 = register1 <br>
rs2 = register2 <br>
imm[4:1] = bit position 11-8 <br>
imm[10:5] = bit position 30-25 <br>
imm[11] = bit position 7 <br>
imm[12] = bit position 31 <br>
imm[0] = 0 always (not included in instruction but is kept 0) <br>
- beq (funct3 = 000) -> branch equal
- bne (funct3 = 001) -> branch not equal
- blt (funct3 = 100) -> branch less than
- bge (funct3 = 101) -> branch greater/equal


## J-Type Instruction
J-Type instructions are for jumps. It is unconditional and always jumps. It is used in function calling. As functions can be anywhere in the code so our jump could be of any number so J-type instruction uses 20bits immediate(offset) which allows jumping to +/-1Mb of addresses. On jump the code jumps to the offset value and stores the return address in rd.<br>
[imm[20]] [imm[10:1]] [imm[11]] [imm[19:12]] [rd] [opcode]
opcode = 1101111 <br>
rd = destination register <br>
imm[19:12] = bit position 19-12 <br>
imm[11] = bit position 20 <br>
imm[10:1] = bit position 30-21 <br>
imm[20] = bit position 31 <br>
imm[0] = always 0 not specifed in instruction <br>

## What confused me
I learned before that every instruction is 4-bytes(32-bits) so the code should be able to only jump to addresses that are 4-byte aligned and for that bit1 in immediates of both B-type and J-type instruction should be 0. But the designers of RISC-V were ahead and thought about compressed instruction so they allowed bit1 of immediate to be either 0/1. So the base design which I am learning currently as of this day is base one and I will be getting bit1 as 0 naturally for both instructions as for 4-bytes aligned addresses but in the future when we get to advanced topics bit1 not always being set to 0 will make more sense.