# Day 9 : SystemVerilog and SR Latch

## New SystemVerilog concepts
use logic instead of reg and wire.                                                                     
always_comb for combinational circuits, fires whenever input changes. use blocking(=) because order matters here                                                                                       
alway_ff for sequential circuits, fires at clock edges and uses non-blocking(<=) because everything is captured simultaneously.                                                                           
if/else block in always similar like C : if (condition) begin //code end


## Blocking vs Non-blocking
Blocking (=) works sequentially like a C program.                                                         
Lets say a=3,b=4;                                                                                         
- a=b;                                                                                                    
- b=a;
In this case a becomes 4 immediately, and b takes 4 because blocking assignment changed 'a' immediately before b was read.     

Non-Blocking(<=) works by scheduling.                                  
Lets say a=3,b=4;                                                                                         
- a<=b;
- b<=a;
In the previous example at first it is scheduled that a will become 4 and b will become 3 but not changed instantly. At last after reading everything change the values. Simply at first all the variables in right hand side decides what value to take and after all the variables have completed reading the value gets changed.


## SR Latch Behaviour
- at first s=0,r=0 -> q=x, x state(unknown) means simulator has no idea of what the value was when it powered up. In real hardware it could be 0 or 1 randomly.
- s=1,r=0 here q=1 value is stored in the latch.
- s=0,r=0 whatever value is already stored is held
- s=0,r=1 the value resets and q=0
- s=0,r=0 the value which was stored is held
- s=1,r=1 forbidden state both q=0 and q_bar=0

## Why latches are dangerous
The SR latch has no clock. It works continuously and whatever is S gets reflected on output (q). As sr latch is always working during the transition state the input at S is garbage and outputs garbage until it is settled. The q follows S which is transparent window and during this garbage value gets stored in memory if latch is used. So we solve this by using clock which only captures the input and stores at certain instants only preventing reading and giving garbage.