# Day 34 : ALU Build Complete

## ALU
We built ALU with 8 operations and zero flag for now. We have always_comb block with different cases to select for correct alu operation based on alu_op input. We can directly use + for addition , - for subtraction no need to keep adder circuits ourselves the synthesis tool handles all of those itself and correctly places the required optimized circuit for the operation.

## Why shift only uses b[4:0]
For shifting operation we need two registers, one contains the actual data which is being shifted and one contains the number of shifts to make. For a 32 bit left shifting 31 times moves a bit from LSB to MSB and if left shifted 32 times then it will be all 0 and any other shifts greater than 31 will be all 0. So because of this reason we only look for lower 5 bits of register which contains the number of shifts to make as 5 bits can correctly handle this behaviour of shifting 31 times and if we shift by 35 then it will actually shift it by 3. So actually shifting by 32 means 0 shifting, shifting by 33 means shifting by 1 so in general it is "shift modulo 32".

## Signedness 
Hardware doesn't have types, only bit patterns. Signedness is an interpretation applied during operations and not property of wires. Signs only matters when we interpret the bits which using $signed() does. In testbench when we write a=-5 it is stored as 2's complement bit pattern even though a is declared unsigned logic wire.

## Important cases in testbench
- Shift modulo 32 : Left-shift by 35 actually shifts the data by 3 because we only look at the lower 5 bits of the register which holds the number of shifts to make. 

- Signed SLT : For SLT if a is smaller then we get result as 1 and 0 otherwise. To prevent overflow bugs the ALU compares the sign bits (MSB) first. If the signs are different the negative number is instantly declared smaller. If the signs are the same it performs subtraction and checks if the result is negative. slt treats numbers as signed numbers and there is another operation called SLTU for unsigned numbers.

- On adding if the result exceeds the maximum limit then the result overflows back to 0 without crashing the simulation.


## Git Branch
When we want to create a new feature we make a dedicated feature branch from main. We make all the changes and commits in that feature branch. After the feature is completed and ok we merge it back to the main branch. If we want to preserve the feature's branch history then we use git merge --no-ff feature_branch_name. Without --no-ff the feature's branch history (commits) are still preserved but the fact that they came from separate branch is no longer visible in git history. With --no-ff git creates a merge commit that shows the commits were part of a feature branch and were later merged into main.