# Day 37 : R-Type Datapath and Write Timing Model

## R-Type Datapath
For this we drew three blocks. First the instr_mem block from where the 32bits instruction comes out. From the instruction the bits fan out to different parts, for R-type instruction the rs1 and rs2 bits of the instruction goes to read_address of register for selecting the correct registers for reading the values. Then the values from those registers go into ALU as two inputs of ALU (a and b), ALU calculates the result, which goes back to the register as write_data. The rd bits of the instruction select the destination register (write_address), and writing happens along with the write_enable signal. No muxes are needed for R-type instruction as no need for selecting memory or immediate values for this instruction type.


## Field Timing
The instruction word and all the bits inside it like the rs1/rs2/rd are all stable from the start simultaneously. There is nothing like the lower bits of instruction first gets stable and upper ones later, everything gets stable simultaneously.


## Write Timing Model
As all the bits of instruction are stable from the start including the rd(destination register) of the instruction. So the writing address becomes stable from the start but won't have any impact unless the write_data along with write_enable signal arrives and even though the write_address to select the register to be written to is stable from the start, writing only happens at the edge.


## Dual-port Read
SUB x5, x5, x5. Here we are reading from the x5 register twice and as our register has two read ports which can independently select any register and read from it so we can read twice from the same register in same cycle without any problem.