# Day 2 : Verilog modules, Flip-Flops

## What I learned
A verilog module is the building block used to describe circuits. It defines block of hardware with specified inputs and outputs.
Assign means giving a value to a signal continuously. The value gets updated whenever there is a change in signal on the right side. Eg. assign y = a & b
Testbench is a module used to test the working of the module and it has no ports because it is not used to connect to anything it is just a environment to test the simulation.
By default module and its testbench module are different so to use gate we have to instantiate the module and connect/map the module's signals to testbench signals. 
Initial block is the block from where the simulation starts and execute sequentially from top to bottom.
Feedback in the circuit creates memory. SR latch works by using two NOR gates and output of one goes to input of other. At any instant the values from two gates must be complementary but fails for s=1 and r=1 so it fails. We can solve this using D flip flop whose structure is same as SR but here we have only one input and in the latch, one input is given as it is and another one is given as input using not gate. So the inputs are always complementary to each other and solves the forbidden value problem of SR flip flop.


## What confused me
Writing of code and its test bench took sometime to get used to.

## Code output
- and_sim
a=0 b=0 y=0
a=0 b=1 y=0
a=1 b=0 y=0
a=1 b=1 y=1
and_gate_tb.v:15: $finish called at 40 (1s)

- or_sim
a=0 b=0 y=0
a=0 b=1 y=1
a=1 b=0 y=1
a=1 b=1 y=1
or_gate_tb.v:15: $finish called at 40 (1s)

- Xor_sim
a=0 b=0 y=0
a=0 b=1 y=1
a=1 b=0 y=1
a=1 b=1 y=0
xor_gate_tb.v:17: $finish called at 40 (1s)


## Key insight today
Verilog descriptions are simultaneous not sequential like c/c++.