# Day 4 : Ripple Carry Adder and Carry Lookahead                 

## What I learned
4 bit ripple carry adder which is made using 4 full adders. The cout of one adder goes as cin for the coming full adder. So we get full addition including the carry.                                 
At any instant we need the cout value from previous column to perform the addition. So for 32 bit adder using this would need to complete calculation from all the previous 31 bits so it is slower and not used in actual cpu.                                       

## Carry Lookahead
The need for sequential computation in ripple carry adder is slow so carry lookahead adder is used to determine carry outputs in parallel. Carry Lookahead uses two signals : Generate and Propagate to find carry outputs in advance without waiting for sequential propagation reducing the delay.      
Generate (G) = a AND b which means no matter what the cin is these bits will always produce carry.   
Propagate (P) = a OR b which means whatever carry comes in comes out.                  

## Path trace for carry lookahead
G0=1, P1=1, P2=1 -> G0=1 means column1 definitely gets cin=1 and P for column1=1 so column1 cout=1 and for column2 cin will be 1(from cout of column1) and its P=1 so its cout=1 as well so we know the cout from column2 is 1 without waiting.                                                                                            C1 = G0 or (P0 and Cin)                                                   
C2 = G1 or (P1 and G0) or (P1 and P0 and Cin)                          

## Limits on carry lookahead
As the number of bits increases the number of gates(and, or) also increases. More number of gates mean longer critical path. So for 64bit system carry lookahead is also another problem to be dealt with. So we use hierarchial carry lookahead which is carry lookahead in group of 4 bits, then carry lookahead is applied between groups for faster speed and reduced complexity.

## Code output
a=0001 b=0001 sum=0010 cout=0
a=1111 b=0001 sum=0000 cout=1
a=1010 b=0101 sum=1111 cout=0
