# Day 20 : Vending Machine Mealy FSM

## State Diagram
- S0:  +5¢  → S5  [D=0, C=0]
- S0:  +10¢ → S10 [D=0, C=0]
- S5:  +5¢  → S10 [D=0, C=0]
- S5:  +10¢ → S15 [D=0, C=0]
- S10: +5¢  → S15 [D=0, C=0]
- S10: +10¢ → S20 [D=0, C=0]
- S15: +5¢  → S20 [D=0, C=0]
- S15: +10¢ → S0  [D=1, C=0]
- S20: +5¢  → S0  [D=1, C=0]
- S20: +10¢ → S0  [D=1, C=1]


## Why mealy machine for vending machine
Output fires when coin arrives not from state change alone. In state15 on getting coin10 as input triggers dispense but no change and on state20 on getting coin5 triggers dispense but no change but on getting coin10 triggers dispense and change both. And output fires immediately using combinational logic without waiting for clock edge.<br>

## Two process implementation
always_ff blocks is used for state change which handles sequential logic. In always_comb block we set the default behaviour first so that nothing new happens when there is no new input. Then we have coin conditions for different states. Default case is necessary because by any chance if some cases were not handled then simulator would have silently placed a latch so keeping default handles those cases and strictly makes it combinational preventing latch inference.


## Testbench timing challenge
Coin input must be a pulse not a continuous high signal. Because if we inserted a coin and not taken as pulse then the machine would read the input as high for the whole duration so to prevent that we keep coin input as pulse so that the input remains high for the duration to allow state change and do not read high forever.<br>
The tasks for inserting coins are based on this behaviour. It sets the signal for insertion for one clock edge to allow for state change then goes low so that the machine doesn't read high forever.
Last coin is inserted manually without using tasks for insertion because Vending machine is a mealy machine and its output fires immediately when correct input and state occurs. So if we have used tasks then it would fire the output and go to next state then our assert condition would have failed. So by manually giving the input with #1 delay, we can assert the condition at the instant the output fires before clock edge changes the state.


## Latch inference problem
If no condition is true, then we have kept the default value. So that machine doesn't infer a latch for unspecified case. For unhandled cases simulator sees nothing handling those so it keeps the previous value for this unhandled case which creates the latch.

## All four tests
The first test was to check for the condition when all coin5 were inserted. Second test was to check for the condition with 2 coin10 and a coin5. The third test was with 3 coin10 to check for dispense and change behaviour working well. The fourth test was for verifying the reset condition.


## Mealy glitch problem
In our test2 output the change was 1 momentarily at time=95 then again became 0 at time=96. It is a combinational glitch caused by Mealy FSM reacting instantly to a slight timing overlap between new state and previous input. In real hardware it could trigger unwanted output so Mealy FSMs need careful output handling in real systems. Hardware engineers solve this by using either moore machine or registering the outputs.