# Day 15 : Github Actions CI

## What CI/CD is
Continuous Integration means we write some code and push it then the tests are run automatically in the server with every push so that we know what is wrong.
CD means Continuous Development which is automatically deploying passing code.

## How Github Actions work
Fresh Ubuntu machine starts on every push in the server. It clones the repo, install the tools, run make tests. Then it shows whether the pushed code was errorless or not. Green tick means everything passed and Red X means something broke.

## The workflow file structure
- name: what this workflow is called (RunTests for ours)
- on: when to trigger (on every push and pull)
- jobs: container for all the jobs
- test: name of this job
- runs-on: where it runs (Github's Ubuntu machine)
- steps: action
- uses: pre-built action from Github
- run: shell command that we write ourselves

## Problems we faced
sim directories didn't exist on fresh machine. So the issue was fixing this and although with necessary changes it was showing the same error and after many hours of returning back the issue of sim directory not existing was solved. (Maybe github issue or my skills). We added mkdir -p sim/gates sim/combinational sim/arithmetic sim/sequential as a separate CI step before running tests.

## What the repo now has
It checks for the code on every push. The workflow installs ubuntu on github's fresh machine and clones the repo, create simulation directories, run all the tests.

## .gitkeep
git tracks files not folders so git doesn't track empty folders. To track such folder structures we keep .gitkeep (empty file can be anything like empty.txt or something but it is standard practice to keep .gitkeep) files in those folders. The .gitignore ignores everything in sim/ which includes the .gitkeep files inside the sim subfolders. So we have to force add it so it keeps tracking git add -f  