# Day 12 : Metastability and Timings

## Setup Time
It is the minimum time bofore the clock edge where the flipflop input must be settled.                    
Setup check : clock_period >= clk-to-Q + max. combinational delay + setup_time <br>
clk-to-Q = time after clock edge until Q(output) is stable

## Hold Time
It is the time after the clock edge where the input(D) should remain stable so that the flipflop captures clean stable value. <br>
Hold check : Hold_time <= clk-to-Q + minimum combinational delay <br>
It means the time after FF1 changed its output, the minimum time required for combinational delay. So hold time should be less than these. If the signal reaches FF2 from FF1 after the combinational delay during the capturing window of FF2 then we get metastability problem so hold time should be greater than this.

## Metastability
When D(input to flipflop) changes within setup window, the latch captures the mid-transition voltage which is neither 0 nor 1. Now the circuit is in unstable equilibrium. (It is like a ball balanced on hill top which is stable but even a slight nudge/noise can take the ball in any direction). In the real hardware the thermal noise of the circuit eventually resolves it but "resolution time is unbounded" which means we dont know when it will resolve and which value it will resolve to. And if it doesn't resolve within the next clock edge then this metastable value will propagate further to next flipflops.


## Clock edge based testbench
task tick(input int n) : it is like a function and we can call this task from anywhere. repeat(n) means repeat the statement n time (looping). We added #1 time unit delay at last for consideration of hold time window. We use assert in place of if/else. Using if/else the simulation would still run after failing the condtion but using $fatal stops the simulation immediately on failing.